- [Instructor] So now that we have a key
we can do some actual encryption and decryption.
So let's jump into the IDE.
I'd like you to go ahead and open up in source main java
our symmetric encryption utilities
in com.frankmoley.crypto symmetric package.
Now because we're going to use CBC,
we need to do a few things to get started.
So the first thing that we're going to do here
is we're going to create a private static final string,
and we're going to call this AES_CIPHER_ALGORITHM.
Remember that we're using a block cipher,
so it's not just AES, we also need to pass in the mode,
which we're going to use CBC,
and because we want to make sure that everything
is padded correctly, we're going to use PKCS5Padding.
Now essentially this is going to make sure that our block
gets sufficient padding, we're going to use CBC,
which means that we need an initialization vector.
So let's go ahead and create a method in order
to do that initialization vector.
So we'll create a public static byte array method
called createInitializationVector.
We will simply create a byte array equal to size of 16.
Now once we have that we will use secureRandom.
And we're going to use that to get a random set of bytes.
So we'll call into secureRandom.nextBytes
and we will pass it our initializationVector.
Now this should populate all 16 bytes
with a random, a true cryptographic random set of bytes.
Then we will simply return that initializationVector.
So now we can implement our encryption method.
So once again we'll do public static
and we'll get a byte array, and we're going to
performAESEncryption.
We're going to pass it a plainText screen,
a SecretKey and our initializationVector.
Now this will go ahead and throw an exception.
And then we can jump in and actually do our implementation.
And the implementation for this is actually
relatively straightforward.
We're going to create an instance of the cipher engine
by using the cipher.getInstance method,
and we will pass it our AES cipher algorithm.
Now we're going to create our initializationVector
using the ParameterSpec, and we're going to pass into that
our initializationVector.
Now we will do a cipher.init, and we will pass it
the ENCRYPT_MODE.
We will pass it our key, and then we will pass it
our initialization ParameterSpec.
Now we can simply do final on our cipher
passing it the bytes that we actually want to encrypt.
So in this case we'll do plainText.getBytes.
And that's all there is to encryption.
And you'll see that asymmetric encryption
works very much the same way.
Now we're going to create our decryption operation
in order to make sure that we can test this.
So we will create a method called performAESDecryption.
We will pass it a byte array of our cipherText.
We will pass it our SecretKey,
and we will also need to pass it our initializationVector.
And that's an important thing to remember
that you actually need to save that initializationVector.
Once again we'll throw exception.
Now you'll see that it's very much the exact same code
that we did before.
The only difference is is we're instead
of going to initialize it with an encrypt mode,
we will initialize it with a decrypt mode,
and we will simply create a byte array
that is a result, and that equals cipher.dofinal,
passing it to cipherText,
and then we can simply return a new string
that is our result.
So at this point we're actually ready to test it.
So let's open up our test class,
and we're going to create a method with an @Test annotation,
and we will simply call this test AESCryptoRoutine,
and we'll go ahead and let it throw an exception,
and we're going to start with a SecretKey,
call in the utiles to get a SecretKey,
and then we are going to create our initializationVector.
And now we're ready to actually do our encryption.
So we'll start with a plainText string.
"This is the text we are going to hide in plain sight."
Excellent.
So now we will get a byte array that is our cipherText,
and that will come from our
SymmetricEncryptionUtils.performAESEncryption,
passing it to plainText, the key,
and the initializationVector.
We will take that and we will assert that that byte array
is not null.
And we also want to go ahead and do a System.out.println,
once again using our data type converter
to print a hex binary.
The hex binary is going to be our cipherText.
Now we're going to create a string of decryptedText
equal to SymmetricEncryptionUtils.performAESDecryption,
passing it the cipherText, the key,
and the initializationVector once again.
So now we can simply assertEquals our plainText
and our decryptedText.
So now we'll go ahead and run the entire test,
and we should see that both of our unit tests pass.
Which is the indication that everything worked
as we expected it to.
Now if at this point you get an exception
that says illegal key size, that means
that you don't have the unlimited strength JCE
either in your version of the JDK,
or you haven't upgraded to a new enough version of the JDK.
So you need to go ahead and correct that now.
You'll see that I'm using one eight, version 162,
and you can see that right here in my console.
So with that being said now, we've actually encrypted
and decrypted text using AES,
which is the essence of how all symmetric encryption
actually works.